It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating the circulation.
This is my substitute for pistol and ball.
Right and left, the streets take you waterward.
Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.
Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon.
They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling in.
And there they stand—miles of them—leagues.
Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes.
Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
But that same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans.
I abandon the glory and distinction of such offices to those who like them.
And at first, this sort of thing is unpleasant enough.
On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay.
And there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid.
He thinks he breathes it first; but not so.
Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity.
I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.
Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford.
It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet.
Yes, these eyes are windows, and this body of mine is the house.
But it’s too late to make any improvements now.
Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart you through.
Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison.
Supper?—you want supper? Supper’ll be ready directly.
It was cold as Iceland—no fire at all—the landlord said he couldn’t afford it.
Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet.
“My boy,” said the landlord, “you’ll have the nightmare to a dead sartainty.
Presently a rioting noise was heard without.
Starting up, the landlord cried, “That’s the Grampus’s crew.
Hurrah, boys; now we’ll have the latest news from the Feegees.
I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.
In fact, you would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother.
I don’t know how it is, but people like to be private when they are sleeping.
Thinks I, I’ll wait awhile; he must be dropping in before long.
Hecla in a snow-storm—“landlord, stop whittling.
You and I must understand one another, and that too without delay.
Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed.
Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well.
I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck.
I then took off my coat, and thought a little more in my shirt sleeves.
But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.
They were stains of some sort or other.
His bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.
A peddler of heads too—perhaps the heads of his own brothers.
But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.
“Who-e debel you?”—he at last said—“you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e.
“Landlord, for God’s sake, Peter Coffin!” shouted I.
He really did this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.
For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking cannibal.
Better sleep with a sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.
But I don’t fancy having a man smoking in bed with me.
You had almost thought I had been his wife.
Sixteen hours in bed! the small of my back ached to think of it.
Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with it.
I now strove to rouse him—“Queequeg!”—but his only answer was a snore.
He complied, and then proceeded to wash himself.
Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers’s best cutlery with a vengeance.
You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore.
Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.
And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.
To be sure I cannot say much for his breeding.
But New Bedford beats all Water Street and Wapping.
Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence they came.
In some things you would think them but a few hours old.
Look there! that chap strutting round the corner.
Here comes another with a sou’-wester and a bombazine cloak.
The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live in, in all New England.
And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses.
The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist.
A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm.
THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS SISTER.
THIS MARBLE Is here placed by their surviving SHIPMATES.
THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS WIDOW.
As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
All these things are not without their meanings.
Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine.
But what then? Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death.
Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true substance.
Methinks my body is but the lees of my better being.
In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not me.
I pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.
There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here.
By all accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the modern Cadiz.
Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent.
He will not confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion.
‘No sooner, sir?’—‘Soon enough for any honest man that goes a passenger.
But he swiftly calls away the Captain from that scent.
And taken with the context, this is full of meaning.
He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it’s assented to.
He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.
Not a forger, any way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his passage.
But that contradiction in the lamp more and more appals him.
The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.
But the sea rebels; he will not bear the wicked burden.
A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to break.
“Terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul.
In all his cringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known.
Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord out of the fish’s belly.
But observe his prayer, and learn a weighty lesson.
For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance.
He feels that his dreadful punishment is just.
Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like Jonah.
But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached.
I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world’s, or mine own.
With much interest I sat watching him.
He looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.
Queequeg was George Washington cannibalistically developed.
After supper, and another social chat and smoke, we went to our room together.
Consequently, I must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn idolator.
But we did not go to sleep without some little chat.
Thus, then, in our hearts’ honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg—a cosy, loving pair.
Then there you lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.
I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord’s policy of insurance.
Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to the West and South.
It is not down in any map; true places never are.
They put him down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.
Thought he, it’s a wicked world in all meridians; I’ll die a pagan.
Hence the queer ways about him, though now some time from home.
He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation.
Didn’t the people laugh?”  Upon this, he told me another story.
Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river.
Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort.
At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.
His dusky nostrils swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.
Queequeg caught one of these young saplings mimicking him behind his back.
I thought the bumpkin’s hour of doom was come.
I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved.
All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain begged his pardon.
We cannibals must help these Christians.
Nantucket! Take out your map and look at it.
Look at it—a mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all beach, without a background.
But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
They resolved to follow in the same direction.
Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs.
Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs.
Upon making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs.
“A clam for supper? a cold clam; is _that_ what you mean, Mrs.
But when that smoking chowder came in, the mystery was delightfully explained.
Hussey’s clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try a little experiment.
The area before the house was paved with clam-shells.
Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs.
In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow.
It seemed only a temporary erection used in port.
Such eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.
Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship.
I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself.
Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness to ship me.
They are fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.
For all men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness.
Be sure of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.
Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman.
Indolence and idleness perished before him.
His own person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian character.
“He says he’s our man, Bildad,” said Peleg, “he wants to ship.
“I _dost_,” said I unconsciously, he was so intense a Quaker.
“What do ye think of him, Bildad?” said Peleg.
But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply.
The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.
It’s an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he’s bound to hell.
He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways.
“Whew!” he whistled at last—“the squall’s gone off to leeward, I think.
Bildad, thou used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye.
My jack-knife here needs the grindstone.
“Fetch him along, and we’ll look at him.
“Oh! never thee mind about that, Bildad,” said Peleg.
“Has he ever whaled it any?” turning to me.
“Killed more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg.
In fact, he ain’t sick; but no, he isn’t well either.
Any how, young man, he won’t always see me, so I don’t suppose he will thee.
He’s a queer man, Captain Ahab—so some think—but a good one.
Oh, thou’lt like him well enough; no fear, no fear.
“Look ye, lad; never say that on board the Pequod.
And, perhaps, other fools like her may tell thee the same.
Besides, my boy, he has a wife—not three voyages wedded—a sweet, resigned girl.
I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.
“Queequeg,” said I softly through the key-hole:—all silent.
“I say, Queequeg! why don’t you speak? It’s I—Ishmael.
Apoplexy! I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted.
“La! la!” she cried, “I thought something must be the matter.
“I don’t allow it; I won’t have my premises spoiled.
Go for the locksmith, there’s one about a mile from here.
But no; there he was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch.
You’ll starve; you’ll kill yourself, Queequeg.
For some time, do all I would, I could not get into the faintest doze.
“Queequeg,” said I, “get into bed now, and lie and listen to me.
He said no; only upon one memorable occasion.
“I mean,” he replied, “he must show his papers.
Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers.
I say, tell Quohog there—what’s that you call him? tell Quohog to step along.
“Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship’s papers.
We must have Hedgehog there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats.
Think of Death and the Judgment then? No! no time to think about Death then.
“Have ye shipped in her?” he repeated.
“Yes,” said I, “we have just signed the articles.
A soul’s a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon.
Ye hav’n’t seen him yet, have ye?”  “No, we hav’n’t.
But you must jump when he gives an order.
Step and growl; growl and go—that’s the word with Captain Ahab.
“Come along, Queequeg, let’s leave this crazy man.
But stop, tell me your name, will you?”  “Elijah.
But Elijah passed on, without seeming to notice us.
A day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod.
Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward.
I said nothing, and tried to think nothing.
So next morning, Queequeg and I took a very early start.
“Going aboard?”  “Hands off, will you,” said I.
“Elijah,” said I, “you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing.
“Never mind him,” said I, “Queequeg, come on.
Shan’t see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it’s before the Grand Jury.
Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.
The profoundest slumber slept upon him.
“Gracious! Queequeg, don’t sit there,” said I.
“Oh! perry dood seat,” said Queequeg, “my country way; won’t hurt him face.
Get off, Queequeg! Look, he’ll twitch you off soon.
We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the other.
“Holloa! Starbuck’s astir,” said the rigger.
Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.
“Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?” he roared.
Thinks I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.
At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.
So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.
At last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer.
The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.
Starbuck, mind that cooper don’t waste the spare staves.
Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr.
Stubb; it was a little leaky, I thought.
Good-bye, good-bye! Don’t keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
It would be a hopeless, endless task to catalogue all these things.
The whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony.
Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not respectable.
There is a saltcellar of state, so called, and there may be a castor of state.
As a general rule, he can’t amount to much in his totality.
Transported to the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled ale.
It was merely the condensation of the man.
He was by no means ill-looking; quite the contrary.
Outward portents and inward presentiments were his.
“I will have no man in my boat,” said Starbuck, “who is not afraid of a whale.
Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death into an easy chair.
What he thought of death itself, there is no telling.
The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha’s Vineyard.
Little Flask was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long.
Now these three mates—Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous men.
In the fishery, they usually go by the generic name of Gay-Headers.
Tashtego was Stubb the second mate’s squire.
Upon the passage homewards, they drop them there again.
How it is, there is no telling, but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen.
Black Little Pip—he never did—oh, no! he went before.
Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.
Ere long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.
And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab’s texture.
Ah! Stubb, thou didst not know Ahab then.
Well, well; I don’t know what it is, but the Lord keep me from catching it.
Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of ’em.
What the devil’s the matter with me? I don’t stand right on my legs.
Coming afoul of that old man has a sort of turned me wrong side out.
I’ll smoke no more—”  He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea.
With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
“Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had.
‘Why,’ thinks I, ‘what’s the row? It’s not a real leg, only a false leg.
The living member—that makes the living insult, my little man.
But this insult is whittled down to a point only.
Such a phiz! But, somehow, next moment I was over the fright.
‘And what business is that of yours, I should like to know, Mr.
Says I, on second thoughts, ‘I guess I won’t kick you, old fellow.
Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ says I—‘right _here_ it was.
Ahab has that that’s bloody on his mind.
Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.
“Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters.
Ross Browne; the Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev.
He is not even by any means the largest of the whales.
But the time has at last come for a new proclamation.
Far above all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.
There are some preliminaries to settle.
1776, Linnæus declares, “I hereby separate the whales from the fish.
Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.
Above, Linnæus has given you those items.
However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation.
Now, then, come the grand divisions of the entire whale host.
Among these I here include the following chapters:—I.
All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon.
It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do.
Philologically considered, it is absurd.
On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back.
He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters.
And it is just the same with the other parts above mentioned.
On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.
He has been frequently captured there, and towed into harbor.
I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn.
Of a retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers.
I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
He is never chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line.
So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please.
This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length.
What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to say.
But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct.
Originally it was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity.
He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas.
He is very savage—a sort of Feegee fish.
For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and Sharks included.
Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer.
Both are outlaws, even in the lawless seas.
Their appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner.
Full of fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward.
They are the lads that always live before the wind.
A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you one good gallon of good oil.
It is in request among jewellers and watchmakers.
Porpoise meat is good eating, you know.
It may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts.
Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not very readily discernible.
He is only found, I think, in the Pacific.
Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark.
I have lowered for him many times, but never yet saw him captured.
A most mean and mealy aspect! His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.
Above, you have all the Leviathans of note.
You cannot but plainly see that I have kept my word.
God keep me from ever completing anything.
This whole book is but a draught—nay, but the draught of a draught.
Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!   CHAPTER 33.
Flask,” follows after his predecessors.
Wherefore this difference? A problem? Perhaps not.
Who has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Cæsar.
It is a witchery of social czarship which there is no withstanding.
In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served.
His were the shinbones of the saline beef; his would have been the drumsticks.
Least of all, did Flask presume to help himself to butter.
Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask is the first man up.
Consider! For hereby Flask’s dinner was badly jammed in point of time.
For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.
Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach.
They made a sort of temporary servants’ hall of the high and mighty cabin.
Not by beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished.
Alas! Dough-Boy! hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals.
Not a napkin should he carry on his arm, but a buckler.
Nor are these monitions at all unneeded.
Whales are scarce as hen’s teeth whenever thou art up here.
Heed it well, ye Pantheists!   CHAPTER 36.
What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do look brave.
Steward! go draw the great measure of grog.
All visible objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.
Sometimes I think there’s naught beyond.
Talk not to me of blasphemy, man; I’d strike the sun if it insulted me.
But not my master, man, is even that fair play.
But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.
There are men from whom warm words are small indignity.
Starbuck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, without rebellion.
“The measure! the measure!” cried Ahab.
It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye.
Steward, refill!  “Attend now, my braves.
O men, you will yet see that—Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner.
Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer’t not thou St.
The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect.
“In vain!” cried Ahab; “but, maybe, ’tis well.
Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead.
Ha! Starbuck! but the deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon it.
Starbuck paled, and turned, and shivered.
I leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where’er I sail.
Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet’s rim, the warm waves blush like wine.
Is, then, the crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy.
I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer.
Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one.
That’s more than ye, ye great gods, ever were.
Come forth from behind your cotton bags! I have no long gun to reach ye.
Come, Ahab’s compliments to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.
Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye swerve yourselves! man has ye there.
His heaven-insulting purpose, God may wedge aside.
I would up heart, were it not like lead.
[_A burst of revelry from the forecastle_.
Be sure the old Mogul has fixed him, too.
Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny.
Eight bells there, forward!  2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR.
I’ve the sort of mouth for that—the hogshead mouth.
Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that.
We sing; they sleep—aye, lie down there, like ground-tier butts.
At ’em again! There, take this copper-pump, and hail ’em through it.
Tell ’em to avast dreaming of their lasses.
Hist, boys! let’s have a jig or two before we ride to anchor in Blanket Bay.
What say ye? There comes the other watch.
Stand by all legs! Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine!  PIP.
Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears.
I don’t like your floor, maty; it’s too springy to my taste.
I’m sorry to throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me.
Well, well, ye sulkies, there’s plenty more of us.
Ah! here comes the music; now for it!  AZORE SAILOR.
Jinglers, you say?—there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.
Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself.
I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what they are dancing over.
Dance on, lads, you’re young; I was once.
Meantime the sky darkens—the wind rises_.
By Brahma! boys, it’ll be douse sail soon.
Knife thee heartily! big frame, small spirit!  ALL.
A row! a row! a row!  TASHTEGO (_with a whiff_).
Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard’s knife! A ring, a ring!  OLD MANX SAILOR.
Hands by the halyards! in top-gallant sails! Stand by to reef topsails!  ALL.
The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (_They scatter_.
Fine prospects to ’em; they’re on the road to heaven.
But there were still other and more vital practical influences at work.
That to attempt it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity.
On this head, there are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.
Already several fatalities had attended his chase.
In a strait-jacket, he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.
Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing.
That before living agent, now became the living instrument.
This is much; yet Ahab’s larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.
But vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound.
He was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supernatural revenge.
It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things appalled me.
It was during a prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.
Wondrous flutterings and throbbings shook it.
Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage.
I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me then.
But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this.
For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be an albatross.
And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol.
Wonder ye then at the fiery hunt?   CHAPTER 43.
In this manner, they passed the buckets to fill the scuttle-butt.
Look to the bucket!”  “Say what ye will, shipmate; I’ve sharp ears.
Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.
This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other.
I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.
Not a surviving plank of her has been seen since.
After the severest exposure, part of the crew reached the land in their boats.
At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of Nantucket.
His aspect was most horrible, and such as indicated resentment and fury.
45,—he speaks of “_the mysterious and mortal attack of the animal_.
I have the honor of being a nephew of his.
I have particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.
A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be gainsaid.
Of what precise species this sea-monster was, is not mentioned.
It might be that a long interval would elapse ere the White Whale was seen.
Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing.
I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of all hopes of cash—aye, cash.
This vigilance was not long without reward.
I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat.
High aloft in the cross-trees was that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego.
And thereby whalemen distinguish this fish from other tribes of his genus.
“There go flukes!” was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared.
“Lower away then; d’ye hear?” shouting across the deck.
“Spread yourselves,” cried Ahab; “give way, all four boats.
Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone—devils are good fellows enough.
Now ye do something; that looks like it, my steel-bits.
Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity.
Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr.
Let all your crew pull strong, come what will.
Boat and crew sat motionless on the sea.
Instantly the three spread boats in the rear paused on their way.
“Every man look out along his oars!” cried Starbuck.
It is used for catching turns with the whale line.
“I can’t see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to that.
On his broad back, flaxen-haired Flask seemed a snow-flake.
The bearer looked nobler than the rider.
Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes.
He withdrew it from his hatband, where he always wore it aslant like a feather.
He did not say much to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him.
How different the loud little King-Post.
“Sing out and say something, my hearties.
Fits? yes, give him fits—that’s the very word—pitch fits into ’em.
Pudding for supper, you know;—merry’s the word.
Only pull, and keep pulling; nothing more.
Crack all your backbones, and bite your knives in two—that’s all.
Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed.
The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat.
Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear.
However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing.
Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent.
I’ve lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.
Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr.
I should like to see a boat’s crew backing water up to a whale face foremost.
“Queequeg,” said I, “come along, you shall be my lawyer, executor, and legatee.
This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I had done the same thing.
I survived myself; my death and burial were locked up in my chest.
“If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.
Nevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all that matter.
But one cannot sustain an indifferent air concerning Fedallah.
The best man in the ship must take the helm.
Every sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.
Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
His lantern swung from his tightly clenched hand.
Meantime his ship was still increasing the distance between.
“Swim away from me, do ye?” murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.
Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have an agreeable chat.
It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the gallows.
Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster’s ark does not hold it.
Certainly, it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon.
With that view, let me learnedly define it.
Merely make a spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up.
She was manned almost wholly by Polynesians.
In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news of Moby Dick.
She was somewhere to the northward of the Line.
They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen.
He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.
If old Rad were here now, I’d tell him to jump overboard and scatter ’em.
They’re playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him.
But he’s a simple old soul,—Rad, and a beauty too.
Boys, they say the rest of his property is invested in looking-glasses.
I wonder if he’d give a poor devil like me the model of his nose.
‘Thunder away at it!’  “‘Aye, aye, sir,’ said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket.
Take that hammer away, or look to yourself.
But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter by the gods.
Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you pour out again.
But ashore, all this effeminacy is dashed.
‘No need to travel! The world’s one Lima.
“‘Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?’ demanded their ringleader.
Not a man of us turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us.
What say ye, men?’ turning to his comrades.
“‘Better turn to, now?’ said the Captain with a heartless jeer.
“‘Shut us up again, will ye!’ cried Steelkilt.
“‘Oh certainly,’ said the Captain, and the key clicked.
For himself, he would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not.
That was the last night he should spend in that den.
And here, gentlemen, the foul play of these miscreants must come out.
Take that gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.
“‘But I must,’—and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.
“‘You are a coward!’ hissed the Lakeman.
Still, no sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest.
In this attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed.
“‘What are you making there?’ said a shipmate.
“‘Then I must get some from old Rad;’ and he rose to go aft.
“‘You don’t mean to go a begging to _him!_’ said a sailor.
Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the avenger.
“‘Moby Dick!’ cried Don Sebastian; ‘St.
“‘Nay, Dons, Dons—nay, nay! I cannot rehearse that now.
He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat.
And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale’s topmost back.
“‘What do you want of me?’ cried the captain.
Let me board you a moment—I come in peace.
“‘Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head.
‘Adios, Senor!’ and leaping into the sea, he swam back to his comrades.
I go for it; but are you well advised? this may grow too serious.
Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight.
Look at that popular work “Goldsmith’s Animated Nature.
In a word, Frederick Cuvier’s Sperm Whale is not a Sperm Whale, but a squash.
In the previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to.
Huggins’s is far better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale’s is the best.
Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved.
Respectively, they represent attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale.
The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and true.
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not.
The French are the lads for painting action.
But the time of his justification has now come.
Your true whale-hunter is as much a savage as an Iroquois.
As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage.
Some of them are done with much accuracy.
When the porter is sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best.
But these knocking whales are seldom remarkable as faithful essays.
No mercy, no power but its own controls it.
Thus glistening for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.
Then once more arose, and silently gleamed.
It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick? thought Daggoo.
The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness.
At first sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is.
This arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts.
But why say more? All men live enveloped in whale-lines.
But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last.
“Clear away the boats! Luff!” cried Ahab.
It was obvious, now, that the whale had at length become aware of his pursuers.
All silence of cautiousness was therefore no longer of use.
Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play.
And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the assault.
Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.
“Start her, now; give ’em the long and strong stroke, Tashtego.
But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild.
And thus with oars and yells the keels cut the sea.
The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins.
Your hat, however, is the most convenient.
The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down a hill.
“Pull up!—close to!” and the boat ranged along the fish’s flank.
But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of the fish.
A word concerning an incident in the last chapter.
Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs.
So, in productive subjects, grow the chapters.
The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.
Stubb’s whale had been killed some distance from the ship.
Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on whale’s flesh that night.
This particular feat of the shark seems all but miraculous.
Don’t be tearin’ de blubber out your neighbour’s mout, I say.
“No, you didn’t, cook; but I’ll tell you what I’m coming to, cook.
“Avast! heave to! I mean when you die, cook.
It’s a ticklish business, but must be done, or else it’s no go.
Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders.
As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook.
“Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.
Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating.
The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them.
They had a great porpoise grant from the crown.
He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be delicately good.
In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.
It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these creatures.
The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher.
My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.
I have several such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books.
Like those mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable.
This allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.
A word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of the whale.
Like most sea-terms, this one is very happy and significant.
Do thou, too, live in this world without being of it.
Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the Pole.
Peter’s! of creatures, how few vast as the whale!   CHAPTER 69.
For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.
Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from which not the mightiest whale is free.
Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck.
Of all divers, thou hast dived the deepest.
“That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.
So the signal was set to see what response would be made.
But this did by no means prevent all communications.
A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan.
Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are true.
But it is time to return to the Pequod.
“Hast thou seen the White Whale?” demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.
He became a nameless terror to the ship.
Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand.
Of such a letter, Death himself might well have been the post-boy.
Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, “Mr.
Harry—(a woman’s pinny hand,—the man’s wife, I’ll wager)—Aye—Mr.
Now hands are wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there.
It is much the same with him who endeavors the description of the scene.
You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by a long cord.
It was a humorously perilous business for both of us.
So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature united us.
But this was not the only jamming jeopardy he was exposed to.
But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg.
“Yes, this must be ginger,” peering into the as yet untasted cup.
“Will you look at that kannakin, sir: smell of it, if you please.
It is the captain’s orders—grog for the harpooneer on a whale.
Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk over Him.
But it was only a few feet advance they sought to gain.
But I sometimes think he’ll charm the ship to no good at last.
Well, he was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted.
The devil, switching his hoofs, up and says, ‘I want John.
Thus, some minds for ever keep trimming boat.
But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done.
The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.
They are the only whales regularly hunted by man.
There is more character in the Sperm Whale’s head.
In short, he is what the fishermen technically call a “grey-headed whale.
Nor, strictly investigated, is there any incongruity in this comparison.
But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye.
But let us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are.
The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.
Crossing the deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale’s head.
A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.
Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold, we now slide into the mouth.
But in this particular, the demand has long been on the decline.
It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting it on deck.
Again, the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.
So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad.
It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved with horses’ hoofs.
I do not think that any sensation lurks in it.
Bethink yourself also of another thing.
By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at.
It belongs to the pure nautical mathematics.
I know not that it has been defined before.
As for the great head itself, that was doing as well as could be expected.
Yes, it was a running delivery, so it was.
I try all things; I achieve what I can.
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.
A nose to the whale would have been impertinent.
In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the morning.
Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, the elephant’s brow is majestic.
It signifies—“God: done this day by my hand.
It is moreover declared in his pyramidical silence.
Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics.
Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing fable.
As for his true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any.
It is a German conceit, that the vertebræ are absolutely undeveloped skulls.
I would rather feel your spine than your skull, whoever you are.
A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and noble soul.
Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale.
And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yet have reason to know.
For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects.
He’s out of oil, and has come a-begging.
There were eight whales, an average pod.
“Who’s got some paregoric?” said Stubb, “he has the stomach-ache, I’m afraid.
“Mind he don’t sling thee with it,” cried Starbuck.
“Give way, or the German will have him.
“The unmannerly Dutch dogger!” cried Stubb.
It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight.
Bernard’s dogs, you know—relieve distressed travellers.
Giving a sudden gasp, he tumultuously sounded.
Suspended? and to what? To three bits of board.
“Haul in! Haul in!” cried Starbuck again; “he’s rising.
His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion.
His life, as they significantly call it, was untouched.
His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, were beheld.
“A nice spot,” cried Flask; “just let me prick him there once.
It was most piteous, that last expiring spout.
Meantime everything in the Pequod was aslant.
Where one of that sort go down, twenty Right Whales do.
A line-of-battle ship could hardly keep him under then.
Oh! many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend.
When the Romans took Joppa, the same skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph.
Besides, it would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St.
Any man may kill a snake, but only a Perseus, a St.
George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march boldly up to a whale.
But, to this, Bishop Jebb’s anticipative answer is ready.
And this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop.
Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round.
But he had still another reason for his want of faith.
He might have carried him round by the way of the Cape of Good Hope.
He seemed to be working in obedience to some particular presentiment.
Nor did it remain unwarranted by the event.
Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb’s was foremost.
It became imperative to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him.
Small sword, or broad sword, in all its exercises boasts nothing like it.
He minds you somewhat of a juggler, balancing a long staff on his chin.
Instead of sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.
“That drove the spigot out of him!” cried Stubb.
Wherefore the necessity for his periodical visits to the upper world.
No, he breathes through his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.
That is to say, he would then live without breathing.
But the Sperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time.
Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories.
I have ever found your plain things the knottiest of all.
It will not do for him to be peering into it, and putting his face in it.
Wherefore, among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to evade it.
Still, we can hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish.
My hypothesis is this: that the spout is nothing but mist.
For, d’ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate vapor.
This triune structure, as much as anything else, imparts power to the tail.
Could annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do it.
On the contrary, those motions derive their most appalling beauty from it.
Therein no fairy’s arm can transcend it.
Five great motions are peculiar to it.
In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority.
To the whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion.
No ribs of man or boat can withstand it.
Some one strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.
But still you see his power in his play.
She has a whole lake’s contents bottled in her ample hold.
Corresponding to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear.
But this occasional timidity is characteristic of almost all herding creatures.
They chiefly attended to the shouting part of the business.
It is chiefly among gallied whales that this drugg is used.
Hence it is, that at times like these the drugg, comes into requisition.
Our boat was furnished with three of them.
They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball.
Floating on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us.
“Look-e here,” said Queequeg, pointing down.
We saw young Leviathan amours in the deep.
When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales salute _more hominum_.
Instantly Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern.
Of all the drugged whales only one was captured.
The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools.
Say you strike a Forty-barrel-bull—poor devil! all his comrades quit him.
It was decreed by the States-General in A.
A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.
A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.
But others are by no means so scrupulous.
Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the judge.
That is internationally and universally applicable.
“De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam.
By some writers this office is called a sinecure.
The law itself has already been set forth.
But Plowdon gives us the reason for it.
And thus there seems a reason in all things, even in law.
A peculiar and not very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea.
I thought they would keel up before long.
I wonder now if our old man has thought of that.
Yes, I’m for it;” and so saying he started for the quarter-deck.
“What’s the matter with your nose, there?” said Stubb.
All their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.
By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin.
“What shall I say to him first?” said he.
“What now?” said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.
In fact, tell him from me he’s a baboon.
“What now?” said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to them.
“He wants you to take a glass of wine with him,” said the interpreter.
Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.
They hint that all whales always smell bad.
Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats.
In less than half a minute, this entire thing happened.
“Damn him, cut!” roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip was saved.
Bear that in mind, and don’t jump any more.
But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again.
Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word.
Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip’s ebon head showed like a head of cloves.
No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly astern.
Stubb’s inexorable back was turned upon him; and the whale was winged.
In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless ocean was between Pip and Stubb.
But the awful lonesomeness is intolerable.
For the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly.
It was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.
It is tough with congealed tendons—a wad of muscle—but still contains some oil.
They look much like blocks of Berkshire marble.
It is a most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object to behold.
It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron.
Spite of reason, it is hard to keep yourself from eating it.
I confess, that once I stole behind the foremast to try it.
Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale’s vocabulary.
But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so.
They generally go in pairs,—a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man.
The whaling-pike is similar to a frigate’s boarding-weapon of the same name.
The gaff is something like a boat-hook.
And an idol, indeed, it is; or, rather, in old times, its likeness was.
It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were transported to her planks.
When not in use, they are kept remarkably clean.
It is a place also for profound mathematical meditation.
These mouths are fitted with heavy doors of iron.
There are no external chimneys; they open direct from the rear wall.
It belonged to Stubb to oversee the business.
“All ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her.
By midnight the works were in full operation.
A stark, bewildered feeling, as of death, came over me.
My God! what is the matter with me? thought I.
This wilful world hath not got hold of unchristian Solomon’s wisdom yet.
There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness.
In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of queens.
But the whaleman, as he seeks the food of light, so he lives in light.
It is sweet as early grass butter in April.
The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses a singularly cleansing virtue.
The soot is brushed from the lower rigging.
They know not the thing you distantly allude to.
Oh! my friends, but this is man-killing! Yet this is life.
On its round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO.
Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now pausing.
“The old man seems to read Belshazzar’s awful writing.
I have never marked the coin inspectingly.
I will quit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.
Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this as queer.
Signs and wonders; and the sun, he’s always among ’em.
Book! you lie there; the fact is, you books must know your places.
There; he’s before it; he’ll out with something presently.
Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee.
All sorts of men in one kind of world, you see.
This way comes Pip—poor boy! would he had died, or I; he’s half horrible to me.
Hark!”  “I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.
Any way, for the present, I’ll quit Pip’s vicinity.
Ha, ha! old Ahab! the White Whale; he’ll nail ye! This is a pine tree.
The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London.
But here a curious difficulty presented itself.
“I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.
“And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.
Bunger, ship’s surgeon: Bunger, my lad,—the captain).
Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of the yarn.
Oh, ye stars! he sat up with me indeed, and was very severe in my diet.
Oh! a great watcher, and very dietetically severe, is Dr.
In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off it came.
He flies into diabolical passions sometimes.
So that what you take for the White Whale’s malice is only his awkwardness.
But he will still be hunted, for all that.
What is best let alone, that accursed thing is not always what least allures.
“What’s the matter? He was heading east, I think.
In vain the English Captain hailed him.
It was a fine gam we had, and they were all trumps—every soul on board.
A short life to them, and a jolly death.
The beef was fine—tough, but with body in it.
Snodhead, I transcribe the following:  400,000 lbs.
The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels.
Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too.
For even so it is in all material factories.
I saw no living thing within; naught was there but bones.
Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
These admeasurements I now propose to set before you.
Because there are skeleton authorities you can refer to, to test my accuracy.
Such a statement may prove useful here.
In general thickness, they all bore a seemly correspondence to their length.
But now it’s done, it looks much like Pompey’s Pillar.
By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial folio.
But when Leviathan is the text, the case is altered.
To produce a mighty book, you must choose a mighty theme.
And this work was published so late as A.
But will any whaleman believe these stories? No.
The whale of to-day is as big as his ancestors in Pliny’s time.
But you must look at this matter in every light.
But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least.
That direful mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness.
An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion.
But there it was; and there it had abided for now some sixty years or more.
Forward, the red flame of the forge is seen, where the blacksmith is at work.
So we go, who file old jaws and shinbones.
Aye, now, this works better (_sneezes_).
If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.
About it! There; keep thy finger on it.
This is a cogent vice thou hast here, carpenter; let me feel its grip once.
It’s a partnership; he supplies the muscle part.
How the soot flies! This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of.
Ho, ho! That’s it, hey? Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn.
I thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter.
May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir?  It is, man.
Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to a hair, do I.
Is’t a riddle?  I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.
Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me (_turns to go_).
I would be free as air; and I’m down in the whole world’s books.
Starbuck all the time—queer—sir—queer, queer, very queer.
So, so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!   CHAPTER 109.
“Who’s there?” hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round to it.
“On deck! Begone!”  “Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I.
What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving, sir.
Begone! Let it leak! I’m all aleak myself.
However it was, his orders were executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.
Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head.
Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them then.
To be short, among whalemen, the harpooneers are the holders, so called.
“Ah! poor fellow! he’ll have to die now,” ejaculated the Long Island sailor.
This done, he marshalled the planks and his tools, and to work.
Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I’ll beat ye your dying march.
Where learned he that, but there?—Hark! he speaks again: but more wildly now.
Pip was led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.
Nevertheless, this old man’s was a patient hammer wielded by a patient arm.
No murmur, no impatience, no petulance did come from him.
The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both feet.
Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woeful to me.
In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others that is not mad.
Look ye here!” jingling the leathern bag, as if it were full of gold coins.
There’s the stuff,” flinging the pouch upon the anvil.
“No, no—no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper.
Would to God these blessed calms would last.
Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep down and do believe.
“Hast seen the White Whale?” gritted Ahab in reply.
“Come aboard!”  “Thou art too damned jolly.
I’ll soon take that black from your brow.
Come along, will ye (merry’s the play); a full ship and homeward-bound.
Yet dost thou, darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith.
Ha! Such a sight we shall not soon see.
Now, in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of effulgences.
Starbuck—sea-coal, not your common charcoal.
Starbuck,” said Stubb, regarding the wreck, “but the sea will have its way.
But never mind; it’s all in fun: so the old song says;”—(_sings_.
Starbuck, there’s no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my throat.
And when that’s done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a wind-up.
“Are they overboard? drop them over, fore and aft.
A moment or two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one.
“What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same in the song.
“The corpusants have mercy on us all,” cried Stubb, again.
In the midst of the personified impersonal, a personality stands here.
Thou canst blind; but I can then grope.
Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes.
Take the homage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands.
Oh, oh! Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee.
But thou art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not.
I know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.
Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly see it.
Here again with haughty agony, I read my sire.
The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.
The band is working loose and the lee lift is half-stranded.
Shall I strike it, sir?”  “Strike nothing; lash it.
If I had sky-sail poles, I’d sway them up now.
The wind rises, but it has not got up to my table-lands yet.
Oh, take medicine, take medicine!”   CHAPTER 121.
But hark, again, and I’ll answer ye the other thing.
And I am about drenched with this spray.
Never mind; catch the turn there, and pass it.
Tying these two anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him.
And what big generous hands they are, to be sure.
There, hammer that knot down, and we’ve done.
So; next to touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory.
I say, just wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye.
The tails tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d’ye see.
Same with cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask.
Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here.
We don’t want thunder; we want rum; give us a glass of rum.
Ere knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it a moment.
Aye, aye; and powder in the pan;—that’s not good.
I’ll hold the musket boldly while I think.
But how fair? Fair for death and doom,—_that’s_ fair for Moby Dick.
It’s a fair wind that’s only fair for that accursed fish.
If, then, he were this instant—put aside, that crime would not be his.
Ha! is he muttering in his sleep? Yes, just there,—in there, he’s sleeping.
Sleeping? aye, but still alive, and soon awake again.
Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is all thou breathest.
Aye, and say’st the men have vow’d thy vow; say’st all of us are Ahabs.
“On this level, Ahab’s hammock swings within; his head this way.
A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.
Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell him.
“East-sou-east, sir,” said the frightened steersman.
“Thou liest!” smiting him with his clenched fist.
Starbuck, last night’s thunder turned our compasses—that’s all.
Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it.
For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries.
But Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet.
The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in riots.
“Forward, there! Heave the log!”  Two seamen came.
The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.
Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee? Thou seem’st to hold.
Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it.
Where wert thou born?”  “In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.
Haul in here, Tahitian; reel up, Manxman.
And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend thou the line.
Let’s see now if ye haven’t fished him up here, fisherman.
It drags hard; I guess he’s holding on.
Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haul in no cowards here.
Ho! there’s his arm just breaking water.
A hatchet! a hatchet! cut it off—we haul in no cowards here.
Captain Ahab! sir, sir! here’s Pip, trying to get on board again.
Here, boy; Ahab’s cabin shall be Pip’s home henceforth, while Ahab lives.
“One daft with strength, the other daft with weakness.
But here’s the end of the rotten line—all dripping, too.
Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a new line altogether.
He hollowly laughed, and thus explained the wonder.
But few, perhaps, thought of that at the time.
“A life-buoy of a coffin!” cried Starbuck, starting.
“Rather queer, that, I should say,” said Stubb.
“Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so—the coffin, I mean.
The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.
It’s like turning an old coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now.
Let tinkers’ brats do tinkerings; we are their betters.
It’s the old woman’s tricks to be giving cobbling jobs.
Lord! what an affection all old women have for tinkers.
But heigh-ho! there are no caps at sea but snow-caps.
But I’m made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I don’t budge.
Cruppered with a coffin! Sailing about with a grave-yard tray! But never mind.
He goes! Not this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy.
Oh, look, sir! Beware the hatchway!”  “Thank ye, man.
And yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter.
That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes.
Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle.
See! that thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines.
“Bad news; she brings bad news,” muttered the old Manxman.
“Hast seen the White Whale?”  “Aye, yesterday.
Immediately he was recognised by Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew.
But no formal salutation was exchanged.
“Where was he?—not killed!—not killed!” cried Ahab, closely advancing.
There was some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet.
“I will not go,” said the stranger, “till you say _aye_ to me.
Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like case.
God bless ye, man, and may I forgive myself, but I must go.
She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my malady.
Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most desired health.
But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him.
Thy hand!—Met! True art thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre.
Now were even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he’s missing.
What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there’s no opening it.
Shame upon them! Put one foot upon the table.
In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural, vanished.
Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove to check one.
And that shadow was always hovering there.
For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and keel was solid Ahab.
“I will have the first sight of the whale myself,”—he said.
But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen accounted good.
“Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!” cried a foreboding voice in her wake.
I have seen them—some summer days in the morning.
Sleeping? Aye, toil we how we may, we all sleep at last on the field.
Fedallah was motionlessly leaning over the same rail.
“What d’ye see?” cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky.
“Nothing, nothing sir!” was the sound hailing down in reply.
Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.
He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head beyond.
The breeze now freshened; the sea began to swell.
“The birds!—the birds!” cried Tashtego.
Their vision was keener than man’s; Ahab could discover no sign in the sea.
As he sullenly swam off, the boats flew to the rescue.
Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as desolate sounds from out ravines.
Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck.
Soon, it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.
“Can’t see the spout now, sir;—too dark”—cried a voice from the air.
“How heading when last seen?”  “As before, sir,—straight to leeward.
Down royals and top-gallant stun-sails, Mr.
Helm there! keep her full before the wind!—Aloft! come down!—Mr.
Stubb, send a fresh hand to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning.
At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.
But no matter—’tis but resting for the rush.
Starbuck, the ship is thine—keep away from the boats, but keep near them.
His ivory leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter.
“Aye! and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!—d’ye see it.
Starbuck away, and muster the boat’s crews.
Give me something for a cane—there, that shivered lance will do.
By heaven it cannot be!—missing?—quick! call them all.
Upon mustering the company, the Parsee was not there.
Fool! I am the Fates’ lieutenant; I act under orders.
Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.
So with Moby Dick—two days he’s floated—tomorrow will be the third.
“D’ye see him?” cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.
“In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that’s all.
Helm there; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going.
Were I the wind, I’d blow no more on such a wicked, miserable world.
I’d crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink there.
Run tilting at it, and you but run through it.
Even Ahab is a braver thing—a nobler thing than _that_.
Fool! the lines—the harpoons he’s towing.
Aye, aye, I have run him by last night.
A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages.
Time itself now held long breaths with keen suspense.
By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live flesh every way.
Good-bye, mast-head—keep a good eye upon the whale, the while I’m gone.
But I hold thee to the last letter of thy word.
Ye are not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.
“Heed them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars.
Pull on! ’tis the better rest, the shark’s jaw than the yielding water.
Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead.
“I grow blind; hands! stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way.
Is’t night?”  “The whale! The ship!” cried the cringing oarsmen.
What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy hammer.
For an instant, the tranced boat’s crew stood still; then turned.
Epilogue  “AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE” Job.
Why then here does any one step forth?—Because one did survive the wreck.
When I reached it, it had subsided to a creamy pool.
On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer, and picked me up at last.